---
layout: post
title: The life and death of Dishbot
date: 2022-05-26 22:28 +0200
---

I've had this idea about a reicpe management system, that would also help you create a meal plan and write a shopping
list for about four years now. I've worked on in for about that timespan. I never finished, nor released anything form
it.

Yesterday, a friend of mine shared an app with me, that does the exact same thing. Every feature that I ever thought of,
that might be nice to add sometime down the road, it is in there. And it is done well. Really well.  

I felt devestated. It's not that I thought that this idea would be so great that no one else in the world would think of
it. I was pretty sure that other people were thinking of it. I talked to some people about the idea and they all told me
that it sounded logical for such a thing to exist. I thought so, too. If it was that logical, clearly others would have
thought about it as well.  
I've searched around for a while and actually found some implementations of this idea. None of them were really great.
Some where not looking good at all, some where missing featuers I liked. So I continued working on it from time to time.
It was enough to motivate me.  
This app, though. It was too good for me to justify continuing working on my app.

In this piece, I want to reflect a little on my feelings and think about what I can take away from this.

## What I wanted my app to be
To be honest, I always thought the idea was good. I also always thought that people might want to use such an app if it
was built.  
Then again, I did not think about it as something that would make me any money. Mostly, it was a sideproject in which I 
could just program whatever I wanted in the evenings and on weekends, in the tech stack I chose.

This sounds like it should make no difference to me then, if another app exists that does everything I want, since I 
work on it just for fun. This is true, but by now, I know myself at least a little. I lost motivation the moment I
learned about the other app. I know that I would constantly compare whatever I did with what they did. It would take out
all the joy for me.  

It would have been another story had I known about them from the beginning and just started with the thought that I 
wanted to see if I could build something like this myself. 

## The other app
- Name the app
- Critical thoughts about how I could have missed this app since they exist since 2013

## My takeaways
- If you have a good idea, act on it asap
- If you plan to release it and not do it **purely** for fun, do your research
- I'm happy to see the idea valuated
